Jordan May
Blog 4 Amazon Data Base Services
Amazon offers a variety of database services. The different services cover everything from satisfying ADA compliance, to being useful for supply chain management, and more. In this blog post I will discuss the different AWS DB services and their intended uses.<br><br>
First up are the relational data base services: Amazon Aurora, Amazon RDS, and Amazon Redshift. Typically these are perfect for warehouses and e-commerce.<br><br>
Second, for high performing web applications, games,  and e-commerce AWS dynmo DB is the most responsive AWS service, and can support 20 million requests a second. br><br>
Next, for geospacial applications, gaming leaderboards, and caching you can use Amazon ElastiCache for Memcached  Amazon ElastiCache for Redis. br><br>
For content management and user profile use Amazon document DB. <br><br>
Amazon’s service Amazon Managed Apache Cassandra Service is a data base used for managing parts and machinery in large industrial projects. br><br>
Amazon Neptune is used to scan a repository of criminal information, social media, and recommendations. <br><br>
Amazon Timestream is to manage branches for Dev OPS, IOT applications, and industrial telemetry data. <br><br>
Finally the Amazon QLDB is for system of record or supply chain management, registrations and banking transactions. br><br>
Amazon has a database service for almost any scenario, and can provide elastic data bases to any industry. Amazon is pioneering the industry of information science. 
