Jordan May
2/4/2020
Blog 1 - Semester 2
How to set up a Cron Job in Linux and Why
	Chron Jobs are a useful tool in Linux for system admins. The purpose of a cron job is to run a script automatically at a given time interval. A system admin might use cron to routinely run backups, clear the /tmp directory, scan for viruses, send emails, and more. A cron job is a set of commands issued to the cron daemon via a file in the cron directory. 
In a Linux shell type: crontab -e
This command as the root user allows you to edit your cron jobs. If instead you wish to view your cron jobs you can use -l or you can remove cron jobs with -r. After selecting edit, you are prompted to open the cron file in an editor. My recommendations for editors are either vim or nano. If you have done this correctly, you should now be viewing the cron file stored in /var/spool/cron. The file also reads:<br># Edit this file to introduce tasks to be run by cron.<br>#<br># Each task to run has to be defined through a single line<br># indicating with different fields when the task will be run<br># and what command to run for the task<br>#<br># To define the time you can provide concrete values for<br># minute (m), hour (h), day of month (dom), month (mon),<br># and day of week (dow) or use '*' in these fields (for 'any').<br>#<br># Notice that tasks will be started based on the cron's system<br># daemon's notion of time and timezones.<br>#<br># Output of the<br> crontab jobs (including errors) is sent through<br># email to the user the crontab file belongs to (unless redirected).<br>#<br># For example, you can run a backup of all your user accounts<br># at 5 a.m every week with:<br># 0 5 * * 1 tar -zcf /var/backups/home.tgz /home/
Add you cron jobs and save the file. A successful exit will read “crontab: installing new crontab.”
Cron jobs can also be run in user directories. The file is located on user accounts on /home/username/filename. Here is an example of a cron job that would run at 2 AM on Saturdays and will return the errors of the script.
0 2 * * 6 sh /home/username/weekly/weekly-script.sh > /dev/null