5/1/2020
Blog 12 – Amazon Storage Services
In today’s blog I’ll cover the different storage options available for Amazon Web Services and what each service is intended to be used for. The services I will be covering are: Amazon S3, Amazon Elastic Block Store, Amazon Elastic File System, Windows File Server, Amazon S3 Glacier, and AWS Storage Gateway.

Amazon S3 is a storage for storing flat files. Unlike traditional storage, S3s are virtually limitless scaling. Amazon S3 is designed for 99.999999999% (11 9's) f durability. Thisis accomplished with data parity. Your data is available over 4 AZs in one region.

Amazon Elastic Block Store allows you to separate and modularizes your data in what is called a “block.” Blocks can be edited individually, so an individual block is all that needs to be loaded rather than the entirety of the file. This is very powerful for application development.

Amazon Elastic File Systems is a Linux based file system that can be accessed by anyone anywhere. Potentially thousands of EC2 instances could all be using the same EFS because it was designed for parallel use over multiple area  zones. Like the other services, this is scalable. Windows File Server is the same concept as EFS but for Windows computers. It works over SMB protocol, which is the new Windows standard since  Common Internet File System (CIFS.)

Amazon S3 Glacier is designed for keeping  files that are not accessed as frequently in lower priority storage areas. The benefits are lower data costs, but the problem is if you do access your data it will be at a higher cost than an S3 bucket. Data doesn’t have costs to move within the cloud, but does cost money to move outbound. You can also set rules that will effect your data that you have not accessed. By  default after 30 days of not accessing a file in Amazon S3 Glacier the file will be moved to a more cheep and harder to retrieve storage option. After 60 days of not accessing it, the data can be moved to a special Amazon storage facility with high retrieval fees but lower storage fees. 

Lastly, the AWS Storage Gateway is used for on premise applications that can send storage to the cloud. This is an application level gateway, and can be useful if you want to utilize legacy equipment or have regulations that force you to store data. If that is the case, you may have to run your application on premise, and the Amazon S3 Glacier service may be the cheapest storage option t work in tandem with the service.
